In the introduction to Rez Life, David Treuer employed elaborate enumeration and factual evidence to argue that Native Americans are not separate individuals from American society but significant contributors to American culture, economy, and military.

Treuer first introduces the geographical presence of Native Americans. By enumerating locations from "the middle of the desert" to "Niagara Falls", he illustrates the wide spread of Indian reservations. He also mentions the scale of reservations - huge ones are "bigger than the state of Rhode Island", and altogether the reservations make up "2.3 percent of the land in the United States". Comparing the area of reservations to that of a legal state, Treuer allows readers to have a clear impression of the actual size of Native lands. These facts put great emphasis on the physical significance of the Indian reservations, preventing the readers from considering them as negligible areas.

Beyond geography, Treuer discusses Indian individuals' impact on American economy and military. He mentions that the "Seminole" bought the "Hard Rock Café", and the "Oneida" helped renovate "Lambeau Field". What's more, the "Oneida" went to the aid of "Revolutionary Army", and "Iroquois Confederacy" made contribution to the American constitution. Despite of their relatively small population, Native American have disproportionally engaged in "every war America has fought". This impressive sacrifice irrefutably supports the view that Native Americans have massive influence on the modern United States society. All the solid evidence points to the importance of Indian communities, allowing no reader to deny their significance.

Ultimately, through listing statistics and distinct names, Treuer persuades the readers that Native Americans are not just figures in history, but tangible and influential power in the United States. His use of specific facts proves that Indian people serve as a foundational role, being the bedrock of the American society.