逻辑词

# 自己练习

> 练习 23 People spend the night in different kinds of places when they go on vacation. Some people enjoy camping outside in tents. Others prefer to stay in hotels. Which do you prefer? Why?

- 说 environment 有点局限
  - enjoy big bed, warm shower
  - **well decorated**
- 然后开二层，选一个：
  - **remarkable** services
    - 24h
    - directly to my room
  - entertainment
    - gym
    - swimming pool
    - bar
  - safe

对比不是双方都得选，选好说的。显然 tent 不好才是好说的。

> 练习 24 Some people think that it is an essential part of a child's education to go on field trips, for example, to a museum or the zoo. Others think that a child's time is better spent learning in a classroom. Which view do you agree with? Explain why

- learn knowledge well
  - diff know -> interested
  - e.g. real animals (此处放一堆动物), learn a lot
- However, stay in classroom, pain, not good for their health
  - field trip for exercise

> 练习 25 Do you prefer to accept a job that pays well or a job that offers higher personal satisfaction but doesn't pay well?

- 攻击对方 work a lot, **24-7 / 10 hours in a row**, exhausting
  - e.g. salesmen
  - stress, pressure
  - (physical) health
- .
  - e.g. teacher
    - satisfied
    - holiday
    - accompany, family

---

- living std
  - for example, with the money I earned, I can ...
    - restaurant
    - hotel
    - travel
    - fancy car
    - whatever I want **without hesitation**
  - student loan
- challenging
  - skills
  - salesmen, deal with diff clients
- 攻击对面：**sense of security**
  - not stable
  - easily replaced
  - difficult for me to find another job

# 看电视

> 小孩该不该看电视？

不该
- 心理阴影
- 近视眼

> 34. Some people prefer to watch films that are exciting and entertaining. Others prefer to watch films that are more serious and have an important message or teach them something new. What kind of film do you prefer and why? Use specific examples and details in your response

- 没文化（not enough background knowledge）

# 孩子

## 独立

> 35. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children should be taught to be independent at an early age.

- 父母忙（make money），减少父母负担
- （万能）**prepare for the future**
- （万能）**eventually children will grow up and live alone**
  - e.g. **boarding school**, study abroad, have a family
  - cannot take care of them

> 类似题：家长要不要 prevent children from making mistakes

> 42. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: children should help with housework as soon as they are old enough to do so.

- 辛苦
  - 理解家长的 hard work，enhance relationship

## Manner

> 40

- 呆在学校时间长，老师容易让孩子学习 good manners
  - professional
- 家长忙，……

# 学科

> 36

- （万能）complicated, take so much time
- （万能）ChatGPT, just search, accurate
- not helpful for future job, not ask us about anc

# Multitask

> 37  Some people prefer to do several tasks or projects together at the same time. Others prefer to work on one task or project at a time. Which way of working do you prefer and why?

- ensure quality
  - 不擅长、mistakes, redo
  - waste of time
- **overwhelmed / stress**
  - × motivation
  - inefficient

# Other

> 41. Some people believe that certain places on Earth should be preserved and protected forever from human development. Others believe that humans should be able to use and develop all areas on Earth as the human population grows. Which view do you agree with? Explain why.

- 学习历史
  - 二层：国家象征
- 保护自然区域，保护环境
  - 二层：促进旅游业

> 43. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? lt is important to help people who have moved into your neighborhood to feel welcome and part of the community.

- 建立友谊
- 他们感受到 warmth，也愿意为 community 做贡献
  - convey to new neighbors

